Problem Description
The goal of the N-queens problem is to place N queens on a chessboard such that no queen attacks any other. (A queen attacks any piece in the same row, column or diagonal). Only boards of size four or higher have solutions, and there is usually more than one solution per board, of course, some of these solutions are mirrors of others.  The solution to the four-queen problem is an example of one such board that has only one solution that can be mirrored only.  All subsequent boards have more than one arrangement. As queens are placed on the board, the lines of force that they exhibit down the ranks, files, and diagonals drastically decreases the search space as they are added, such that when n – 1 queens have been placed, only one position is left open for the remaining queen in the case of a solution.  In the case of a board not having a solution, the entire board has been placed in danger when the n – 1th queen has been placed, if not before.

Hill Climbing Algorithm 
The hill-climbing search algorithm (steepest-ascent version) is simply a loop that continually moves in the direction of increasing value—that is, uphill. It terminates when it reaches a “peak” where no neighbor has a higher value.
This algorithm randomly generates a parent array, as well as (n * 2) children arrays.  A heuristic function is run on the parent array and the array is then copied to all the children arrays.  One bit is flipped in per child to make it different from the parent.  A new heuristic is computed for the child, and the best child is taken to be the next parent.  
Unfortunately, hill climbing often gets stuck for the following reason:
Local maxima: a local maximum is a peak that is higher than each of its neighboring states but lower than the global maximum. Hill-climbing algorithms that reach the vicinity of a local maximum will be drawn upward toward the peak but will then be stuck with nowhere else to go.
Thus, the algorithm is incomplete - it often fails to find a goal when one exists because it can get stuck on local maxima. Random-restart hill climbing adopts the well-known adage, “If at first you don’t succeed, try, and try again.” It conducts a series of hill-climbing searches from randomly generated initial states, until a goal is found. It is trivially complete with probability approaching 1, because it will eventually generate a goal state as the initial state.
